README.md, before:

[![](docs/propelo.png)](https://www.propelo.ai)

# propelo-job-reporter
Propelo's Jenkins Plugin to send reports about jobs' logs and metadata to the Propelo Service.
<br />
<br />
<br />


# Installation

### Installation pre-requirements
---
1. Have a Propelo account with permissions to add an integration.
2. Have access and permissions to install plugins in Jenkins.

<br />
<br />

### Instalation Steps
---
1. Login to your Propelo account
2. Access the Integrations Settings Tile. 

  > <img src="./docs/Integration_settings.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Integrations Tile"/>

3. Add a new Jenkins integration

  > <img src="./docs/jenkins.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Add a Jenkins Integration"/>
  > <img src="./docs/jenkins2.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Install the plugin"/>
  > <img src="./docs/jenkins3.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Add a new instance"/>


4. Install the plugin


5. Configure the plugin


<br />
<br />
<br />

# Contributing
<br />

## Build
---
- Maven
  > Steps:
  > - Build command: `mvn install`
  >
  > - This creates an `hpi` file that can be uploaded to Jenkins:  
  > `target/propelo-job-reporter.hpi`
  >  
  > Notes:
  > - Use Java 8 to build otherwise there will be some issues with Javadoc step, e.g.:  
  >
  >       JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 mvn install

<br />

- Gradle
  > Steps:
  > - Build command: JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean build
  >  
  > - This creates an `hpi` file that can be uploaded to Jenkins:  
  > `build/libs/propelo-job-reporter.hpi`
  > 
  > Notes:
  > - Use Java 8 to build otherwise there will be some issues with Javadoc step, e.g.:  
  >
  >       JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean build

***The findbugs step may fail (skipTests=true doesn't seem to work) but anaways runs after the build has been created***

<br />
<br />

## Deploy
---

- Add Plugin: go to Manage Plugins > Advanced > Upload Plugin
http://jenkins-host/pluginManager/advanced 

Testing
-------

> **Test while developing**
>
>       JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work ./gradlew clean server
>
>       JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean server  
>
>       GRADLE_OPTS=-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=5005 JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean server  

> **Run Jenkins docker image:**  
>  1. Blue Ocean Jenkins 
>  
>         https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkinsci/blueocean/
>  
> 2. Officcial jenkins docker (lts or any specific version)
> 
>        docker run -d --name jenkins-dev -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 --mount "type=bind,source=/<base path>/data/jenkins_dev,target=/var/jenkins_home" --env JAVA_OPTS=-Dhudson.footerURL=https://levelops.io jenkins/jenkins:lts

- Run integration test class over Wiremock provided in resources

<br />
<br />

## Develop
---

Jelly UI: https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Jelly+form+controls

### Knowledge Base
---

- Adding Plugin Manually return error "413 Request Entity Too Large".  
    This is a known issue with Jenkins Nginx default settings.  
    Solution: Increase client max body size limit in Nginx config
    1. Edit Nginx config  
        <pre><code>vi /etc/nginx/nginx.conf</code></pre>  
    2. Add the following line to http or server or location context to increase the size limit  
        <pre><code>\# set client body size to 20M \#  
        client_max_body_size 20M;</code></pre>  
    3. Restart Nginx service
        <pre><code>service nginx reload</code></pre>
    References:  
    Link to [Jenkins Bug](https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-32575 "Jenkins Bug").  
    Link to [solution instructions](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-unix-bsd-nginx-413-request-entity-too-large "solution instructions").  
    Link to [Jenkins Gradle Plugin](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/org.jenkins-ci.jpi)  
    Link to [Jenkins Gradle Plugin - GitHub](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gradle-jpi-plugin)

Commit message:

SEI-2067 - Jenkins Plugin - Add docs for plugin configuration

README.md, after:

[![](docs/propelo.png)](https://www.propelo.ai)

# propelo-job-reporter
Propelo's Jenkins Plugin to send reports about jobs' logs and metadata to the Propelo Service.
<br />
<br />
<br />


# Installation

### Installation pre-requirements
---
1. Have a Propelo account with permissions to add an integration.
2. Have access and permissions to install plugins in Jenkins.

<br />
<br />

### Instalation Steps
---
1. Login to your Propelo account
2. Access the Integrations Settings Tile. 

  > <img src="./docs/Integration_settings.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Integrations Tile"/>

3. Add a new Jenkins integration

  > <img src="./docs/jenkins.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Add a Jenkins Integration"/>
  > <img src="./docs/jenkins2.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Install the plugin"/>
  > <img src="./docs/jenkins3.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Add a new instance"/>


4. Install the plugin
   - Sign-in to Jenkins and select Manage Jenkins.
   - Select “Manage Plugins”.
   - Select the “Available plugins” tab.
   - In the “Search Plugin” box, type "propelo"
   - Install the plugin called "Propelo Job Reporter" by selecting it and clicking "Install without restart".
   - Once the plugin installation is complete, the status will change to “Success". If it doesn't change to "Success" a restart might be needed


5. Configure the plugin
   - Sign-in to Jenkins and select Manage Jenkins.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_1.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 1"/>
   - Select "Propelo Job Reporter".
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_2.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 2"/>
   - Set Jenkins Instance name. This name would appear on SEI UI.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_3.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 3"/>
   - Set Propelo Api key. The api key can be obtained in the SEI (Propelo) UI.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_4.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 4"/>
   - Set plugin directory. The work directory where the propelo plugin will store permanent and intermediate information. The jenkins process must have write access on this directory.  
     **NOTE**: In most cases the default value should work and changing would not be needed.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_5.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 5"/>
   - Set the Jenkins Username of the user who created the Jenkins user token. This field is needed only for Blue Ocean plugin specific data.  
     **NOTE**: In most cases this can be left empty.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_6.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 6"/>
   - Set the Jenkins User Token. [Instructions to generate Jenkins User Token](https://support.cloudbees.com/hc/en-us/articles/115003090592-How-to-re-generate-my-Jenkins-user-token).  
     This field is needed only for Blue Ocean plugin specific data.  
     **NOTE**: In most cases this can be left empty.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_7.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 7"/>
   - Set "Trust " if required. If this is enabled, all certificates are trusted in network communication between Jenkins Plugin and Propelo's Saas.   
     **NOTE**: This should be disabled by default. In specific cases involving network proxies this needs to be enabled.
        > <img src="./docs/Config_Step_8.png" style="width: 400px; hight: 400px;" alt="Configuration Step 8"/>



<br />
<br />
<br />

# Contributing
<br />

## Build
---
- Maven
  > Steps:
  > - Build command: `mvn install`
  >
  > - This creates an `hpi` file that can be uploaded to Jenkins:  
  > `target/propelo-job-reporter.hpi`
  >  
  > Notes:
  > - Use Java 8 to build otherwise there will be some issues with Javadoc step, e.g.:  
  >
  >       JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 mvn install

<br />

- Gradle
  > Steps:
  > - Build command: JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean build
  >  
  > - This creates an `hpi` file that can be uploaded to Jenkins:  
  > `build/libs/propelo-job-reporter.hpi`
  > 
  > Notes:
  > - Use Java 8 to build otherwise there will be some issues with Javadoc step, e.g.:  
  >
  >       JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean build

***The findbugs step may fail (skipTests=true doesn't seem to work) but anaways runs after the build has been created***

<br />
<br />

## Deploy
---

- Add Plugin: go to Manage Plugins > Advanced > Upload Plugin
http://jenkins-host/pluginManager/advanced 

Testing
-------

> **Test while developing**
>
>       JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work ./gradlew clean server
>
>       JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean server  
>
>       GRADLE_OPTS=-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=5005 JENKINS_HOME=jenkins-job-reporter/work JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64 ./gradlew clean server  

> **Run Jenkins docker image:**  
>  1. Blue Ocean Jenkins 
>  
>         https://hub.docker.com/r/jenkinsci/blueocean/
>  
> 2. Officcial jenkins docker (lts or any specific version)
> 
>        docker run -d --name jenkins-dev -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 --mount "type=bind,source=/<base path>/data/jenkins_dev,target=/var/jenkins_home" --env JAVA_OPTS=-Dhudson.footerURL=https://levelops.io jenkins/jenkins:lts

- Run integration test class over Wiremock provided in resources

<br />
<br />

## Develop
---

Jelly UI: https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Jelly+form+controls

### Knowledge Base
---

- Adding Plugin Manually return error "413 Request Entity Too Large".  
    This is a known issue with Jenkins Nginx default settings.  
    Solution: Increase client max body size limit in Nginx config
    1. Edit Nginx config  
        <pre><code>vi /etc/nginx/nginx.conf</code></pre>  
    2. Add the following line to http or server or location context to increase the size limit  
        <pre><code>\# set client body size to 20M \#  
        client_max_body_size 20M;</code></pre>  
    3. Restart Nginx service
        <pre><code>service nginx reload</code></pre>
    References:  
    Link to [Jenkins Bug](https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-32575 "Jenkins Bug").  
    Link to [solution instructions](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-unix-bsd-nginx-413-request-entity-too-large "solution instructions").  
    Link to [Jenkins Gradle Plugin](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/org.jenkins-ci.jpi)  
    Link to [Jenkins Gradle Plugin - GitHub](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gradle-jpi-plugin)
